---
layout: '../../layouts/BlogPost.astro'
title: 'My Goals for 2023'
description: 'A new year is here, and it is time to look ahead.'
pubDate: '1 5 2023'
heroImage: '/blog/2023.jpg'
heroImageAlt: '2023'
heroImageAttr: Jernej Furman https://www.flickr.com/photos/91261194@N06/49737922987
---

A new year has come, and with it, comes a time to reflect and also look forward. This will be a brief post, but I hope to look back in 2024 having met these goals.

## What I want to learn in 2023

These are some technologies that I want to learn in 2023.

1. Rust, Tauri

2. Become better at Javascript

3. Flutter, Kotlin for Android

## Goals for 2023

- Get a job as Front-end or Full-stack

- Get a job as Front-end or Full-stack

- Get a job as Front-end or Full-stack

- Get a job as Front-end or Full-stack

- Get a job as Front-end or Full-stack

- Get a job as Front-end or Full-stack

Did I mention I want to get a job as Front-end or Full-stack?

## What I learned in 2022

I learned many things in 2022, and in all retrospection, I have to say it is one of the years I have grown the most in terms of expanding my skillset and views.

1. Python, Flask

This is technically a 2021 development, but in the fall of 2021, I took a machine learning class and was thrown in the fire to self-teach myself Python in order to do well in the class. I was able to use what I learned in Python to eventually learn things like Flask, a way to make backend and fullstack applications in Python.

2. Javascript, Typescript

- React, Vue, Svelte
- Next.js, Nuxt.js, SvelteKit
- Express.js

I learned Javascript in CSE 154, up to an introduction into ES6 concepts. I was then able to use this to learn Express.js to make RhodesAPI, and then learned Typescript in April. I made a few projects with bare HTML/CSS/Javascript before finally becoming brave enough to learn React in August. I then learned Svelte and Vue around the same time in September, and also their meta frameworks. I haven't really worked with Vue much, but I think I am satisfied with React and Svelte, which are both powerful and fun frameworks to work with.

3. Sass, Tailwind

I've known CSS for a while now, but in 2022 I was able to learn new enhancements to build upon my CSS knowledge, like Sass and Tailwind. In particular, I found Tailwind to be very enjoyable and very productive for me, allowing me to make attractive and responsive UIs quickly.

4. Databases

The databases I am referring to in particular are MongoDB, a NoSQL document database, and Redis, also a NoSQL document database but one mainly used as a cache to shorten response times and query times. I also learned how to use CockroachDB, a provider for SQL databases on serverless and cloud platforms, that uses PostgreSQL-like syntax for their database.

5. Kotlin, Spring Boot

I have only known this for a short amount of time, having learned it at the end of 2022. I used Kotlin and Spring Boot to make an internal API for the backend of a project I am currently working on. Learning through a project was a great way to learn it and I finally was able to use a Java-based language on a project.

6. Testing

I finally got into learning some testing, and I did it with Cypress, a testing framework primarily used for end to end testing but also offers a suite for integration and unit testing. It was actually quite fun to do and a lot more intuitive to me than using Jest with react-testing-library.

7. Docker, Self-hosting

Over the summer, I got really into learning Docker, and writing Docker Compose for microservices to run on my home server. I haven't touched it much recently (aside for notetaking and media syncing), but it was a very useful experience to me.

## End Notes

Did I mention I want to get a job as Front-end or Full-stack?